Language: <F P=105> English </F> Article Type:CSO

<F P=106> [Article by Nigel Hawkes, Science Editor: "Zoo Antelope </F> Catch Mad Cow Disease"]    [Text] Scientists at London zoo have discovered that a  strain of "mad cow disease" affecting a type of antelope can be  transmitted much more easily than was thought.
0.97 (Article by Nigel Hawkes, Science Editor: "Zoo Antelope </F> Catch Mad Cow Disease"]    [Text] Scientists at London zoo; have discovered; that a  strain of "mad cow disease" affecting a type of antelope can be  transmitted much more easily than was thought)
0.86 Context(Article by Nigel Hawkes , Science Editor : " Zoo Antelope < / F > Catch Mad Cow Disease " ] [ Text ] Scientists at London zoo have discovered,List([11, 145))):(a  strain of "mad cow disease" affecting a type of antelope; can be transmitted much more easily; )

The finding uncovers a threat to breeding other species in  captivity unless it can be shown that they are not equally  vulnerable.
0.90 (The finding uncovers; to breeding; other species; L:in  captivity)

The scientists say there is no evidence that similar  transmission is occurring among cows.
0.90 (similar  transmission; is occurring; L:among cows)
0.70 (The scientists; say; there is no evidence that similar  transmission is occurring among cows)
0.39 (there; is no evidence that; similar transmission)

The zoo's small herd of kudu, spiral-horned antelopes  closely  related to cows, has been severely hit by a disease similar to  bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE).
0.92 (spiral-horned antelopes; closely related; to cows)
0.93 (spiral-horned antelopes  closely  related to cows; has been severely hit; by a disease similar to  bovine spongiform encephalopathy)

Of eight animals born in  the herd since 1987, five have contracted the disease.
0.93 (eight animals; born; L:in  the herd; T:since 1987)

Only one  of the five could have eaten feed containing protein from sheep,  believed to be the origin of the outbreak.
0.64 (Only one  of the five; could have eaten; feed containing protein from sheep,)
0.93 (feed; containing; protein from sheep,  believed to be the origin of the outbreak)

The kudu is not the only zoo species to suffer the disease  since it appeared in cows.
0.90 (The kudu; is not; the only zoo species to suffer the disease)
0.86 (the only zoo species; to suffer; the disease; T:since it appeared in cows)
0.45 (it; appeared; L:in cows)

It has also been found in domestic  cats and their larger relations, the cheetah and the puma, in  eland and nyala, and in the gemsbok and the Arabian oryx.
0.42 (It; has also been found; L:in domestic  cats and their larger relations, the cheetah and the puma, in  eland and nyala, and in the gemsbok and the Arabian oryx)

In the  United States, mink have been affected by it.
0.84 (mink; have been affected; by it; L:In the  United States)

The infective agent and its mode of transmission are  unknown,  but the evidence from kudu suggests that some species may be  more easily infected than others.
0.53 (The infective agent and its mode of transmission; are; unknown)
0.84 (the evidence from kudu; suggests; that some species may be  more easily infected than others)
0.69 Context(the evidence from kudu suggests,List([68, 99))):(some species; may be more easily infected; )

Sheep are believed to catch  the disease by contact with placentas in fields after births,  but in the case of the kudu even this route seems unlikely.
0.71 (Sheep; are believed; )
0.88 (Sheep; to catch; the disease; by contact with placentas in fields after births)

In THE VETERINARY RECORD, the scientists eliminate most  routes of infection.
0.95 (the scientists; eliminate; most  routes of infection; L:In THE VETERINARY RECORD)

Infected feed cannot account for four  cases.
0.90 (Infected feed; can not account; for four  cases)

Nor can at least three of the affected animals have  caught the disease from their mothers, who did not suffer from  it.
0.45 (their mothers; did not suffer; from  it)

It is possible but unlikely that the mothers were carriers  that passed on the infection without having symptoms themselves.
0.28 (It; is; possible but unlikely)
0.75 (the mothers; were; carriers  that passed on the infection without having symptoms themselves)
0.68 (carriers; passed; )

If this were so, it would have important implications for  the  disease in cows.
0.18 (this; were; so)
0.45 (it; would have; important implications for  the  disease in cows)

It is more likely, the scientists believe, that  an unidentified agent entered the herd in contaminated feed and  was passed along, as with more mundane infections.
0.78 (the scientists; believe; that  an unidentified agent entered the herd in contaminated feed and  was passed along)
0.24 Context(the scientists believe,List([19, 41))):(It; is; more likely)
0.89 Context(the scientists believe,List([19, 41))):(an unidentified agent; entered; the herd)

Because of  the danger to other animals, the kudu herd has been isolated.
0.75 (the kudu herd; has been isolated; )

Another danger taken seriously by the zoo, a world centre  for  breeding rare and endangered species, is that animals bred in  captivity could carry the infection when released into the wild.
0.90 (Another danger; taken seriously; by the zoo)
0.95 (Another danger taken seriously by the zoo, a world centre  for  breeding rare and endangered species; is; that animals bred in  captivity could carry the infection when released into the wild)
0.90 Context(Another danger taken seriously by the zoo , a world centre for breeding rare and endangered species is,List([0, 104))):(animals bred in  captivity; could carry; the infection; T:when released into the wild)
0.92 (animals; bred; L:in  captivity)

If they proved as vulnerable as the kudu, this could be  disastrous.
0.62 (they; proved; as vulnerable as the kudu)
0.18 (this; could be; disastrous)

The scientists say that the next step must be to examine  whether the agent causing the disease in kudu is the same as  that in cows.
0.90 (the agent; causing; the disease)
0.81 (The scientists; say; that the next step must be to examine  whether the agent causing the disease in kudu is the same as  that in cows)
0.83 Context(The scientists say,List([0, 18))):(the next step; must be; to examine  whether the agent causing the disease in kudu is the same as  that in cows)
0.39 (kudu; is the same as; that)

If it is, the conclusion would be that the kudu  were simply more susceptible to the disease.
0.24 (it; is; )
0.81 (the conclusion; would be; that the kudu  were simply more susceptible to the disease)
0.88 Context(the conclusion would be,List([10, 33))):(the kudu; were simply; more susceptible to the disease)

If, however, it  turned out to be a different and more easily transmittable form,  the case for isolating the kudu would be even stronger.
0.41 (it; to be; a different and more easily transmittable form)

TIMES NEWSPAPERS LIMITED, 1993 

