Simply put, the question was who should be counted as a person and who, if anybody, should not.
0.96 (the question; was; who should be counted as a person and who, if anybody, should not; T:Simply put)

But there's nothing simple about it.

The Senate voted one answer and, in effect, invited the Supreme Court to decide whether it was right or wrong.
0.93 (The Senate; voted; one answer)
0.87 (The Senate; invited; the Supreme Court; to decide whether it was right or wrong)
0.86 (the Supreme Court; to decide; whether it was right or wrong)
0.24 Context(the Supreme Court to decide,List([52, 79))):(it; was; right or wrong)

That happened because in the arithmetic of congressional reapportionment, every question becomes complex, contentious and politically charged.
0.50 (That; happened; because in the arithmetic of congressional reapportionment, every question becomes complex, contentious and politically charged)
0.94 (every question; becomes; complex; L:in the arithmetic of congressional reapportionment)

The point at issue in Senate debate on a new immigration bill was whether illegal aliens should be counted in the process that will reallocate House seats among states after the 1990 census.
0.90 (the process; will reallocate; House seats; L:among states; T:after the 1990 census)
0.97 (The point at issue in Senate debate on a new immigration bill; was; whether illegal aliens should be counted in the process)
0.88 Context(The point at issue in Senate debate on a new immigration bill was,List([0, 65))):(illegal aliens; should be counted; L:in the process)

There could be enough of them to shift seats away from at least five states to Sun Belt states with large numbers of illegal residents.

Nobody is certain because counting illegal aliens is a hard thing to do, given the fact that they don't want to be spotted by the government.
0.58 (they; to be spotted; by the government)
0.36 (a hard thing; to do; )
0.62 (they; do n't want; to be spotted by the government)

Then again, the Census Bureau maintains that not including them, and still coming up with an accurate 1990 population count, would be even more difficult.
0.86 (the Census Bureau; maintains; that not including them, and still coming up with an accurate 1990 population count, would be even more difficult; T:Then again)
0.56 Context(the Census Bureau maintains,List([12, 39))):(not including them, and still coming up with an accurate 1990 population count; would be; even more difficult)

``A census of only legal residents cannot be done as accurately as a census of all residents,'' according to Census Bureau testimony to Congress.
0.80 (A census of only legal residents; can not be done as accurately; )

After the 1980 census, the government estimated that there were 2.57 million people in the United States illegally.
0.83 (the government; estimated; that there were 2.57 million people in the United States illegally; T:After the 1980 census)
0.38 (there; were 2.57 million people in; the United States)

There were other guesses, some of them far higher.

The government made no attempt to count them out in the redistricting process; indeed, the two previous administrations decided that the Constitution required that the census cover illegal aliens along with citizens.
0.86 (the two previous administrations; decided; that the Constitution required that the census cover illegal aliens along with citizens)
0.86 Context(the two previous administrations decided,List([87, 127))):(The government; made; no attempt to count them out in the redistricting process)
0.78 Context(the two previous administrations decided,List([87, 127))):(the Constitution; required; that the census cover illegal aliens along with citizens)
0.88 Context(the two previous administrations decided the Constitution required,List([87, 158))):(the census; cover; illegal aliens along with citizens)

There is not likely to be any change in that prior to the 1990 census next spring.

The Senate has passed an immigration bill including an amendment that would cut illegal aliens from the redistricting numbers, but it is not likely to clear Congress before the next year's national head count.
0.93 (The Senate; has passed; an immigration bill including an amendment)
0.89 (an amendment; would cut; illegal aliens; from the redistricting numbers)
0.61 (it; is not; likely to clear Congress before the next year's national head count)
0.46 (it; to clear; Congress; T:before the next year's national head count)

Sen. Richard Shelby, D-Ala., proposed, and won, the immigration bill amendment that is supposed to exclude illegal aliens from the redistricting process.
0.78 (Sen. Richard Shelby; proposed; )
0.88 (Sen. Richard Shelby; won; the immigration bill amendment that is supposed to exclude illegal aliens from the redistricting process)
0.91 (the immigration bill amendment; is supposed; to exclude illegal aliens from the redistricting process)
0.91 (the immigration bill amendment; to exclude; illegal aliens; from the redistricting process)

It would give Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher the assignment of adjusting the census figures so that illegal aliens don't count for purposes of redistributing House seats.
0.50 (It; would give; Secretary of Commerce Robert Mosbacher; the assignment of adjusting the census figures)
0.92 (illegal aliens; do n't count; for purposes of redistributing House seats)

It does not come with instructions, so the department would have to figure out how.
0.45 (It; does not come; with instructions; so the department would have to figure out how)
0.74 (the department; to figure out; how)

Shelby's amendment says only that the secretary is to ``make such adjustments in total population figures as may be necessary, using such methods and procedures as the secretary determines feasible and appropriate'' to keep illegal aliens from being counted in congressional reapportionment.
0.87 (Shelby's amendment; says; only that the secretary is to ``make such adjustments in total population figures)
0.77 (the secretary; determines; feasible and appropriate)

That task would be perilous politically, since it would involve taking House seats away from some states and giving them to others, all on the basis of estimates.
0.84 (That task; would be politically; since it would involve taking House seats away from some states and giving them to others)
0.46 (it; would involve; taking House seats away from some states and giving them to others)

With 435 seats in the House, every representative gained by a state is a representative lost by another.

Opponents of the Shelby amendment, led by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., said it was unconstitutional, as well as unworkable.
0.95 (the Shelby amendment; led; by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy)
0.86 (Opponents of the Shelby amendment; said; it was unconstitutional, as well as unworkable)
0.18 Context(Opponents of the Shelby amendment said,List([0, 79))):(it; was unworkable; unconstitutional)

``The framers of the Constitution intended to count all persons,'' Kennedy said.
0.98 (The framers of the Constitution intended to count all persons; said; Kennedy)
0.93 Context(The framers of the Constitution intended to count all persons said,List([2, 79))):(The framers of the Constitution; intended; to count all persons)
0.93 Context(The framers of the Constitution intended to count all persons said,List([2, 79))):(The framers of the Constitution; intended to count; all persons)

The Constitution itself says the apportionment of the House is to be determined on the basis of ``the whole number of free persons,'' excluding Indians and counting every five slaves as three persons.
0.81 (the apportionment of the House; to be determined; )
0.94 (The Constitution; says; the apportionment of the House is to be determined on the basis of ``the whole number of free persons)
0.97 Context(The Constitution says,List([0, 28))):(the apportionment of the House; is; to be determined on the basis of ``the whole number of free persons)

That was amended after the Civil War to say that the apportionment of House seats will be based on ``the whole number of persons in each state.''
0.30 (That; was amended; T:after the Civil War; to say that the apportionment of House seats will be based on ``the whole number of persons in each state)

Neither the original article nor the amendment mentions citizenship in connection with apportionment, although the term ``citizens'' is used in some other provisions.
0.94 (Neither the original article nor the amendment; mentions; citizenship)
0.91 (the term ``citizens; is used; L:in some other provisions)

Opponents of the amendment said that showed the authors of both documents wanted everybody counted for purposes of apportionment.
0.84 (Opponents of the amendment; said; that showed the authors of both documents wanted everybody counted for purposes of apportionment)
0.11 Context(Opponents of the amendment said,List([0, 31))):(that; showed; the authors of both documents)

But Sen. Alan K. Simpson, R-Wyo., said the people who wrote the documents had no concept of illegal aliens because there weren't any in their time.
0.90 (Sen. Alan K. Simpson; said; the people who wrote the documents had no concept of illegal aliens because there weren't any in their time)
0.88 Context(Sen. Alan K. Simpson said,List([4, 38))):(the people who wrote the documents; had; no concept of illegal aliens; because there weren't any in their time)
0.86 Context(Sen. Alan K. Simpson said the people who wrote the documents had,List([4, 77))):(the people; wrote; the documents)

That came later, with immigration restrictions that began in 1875.
0.18 (That; came; T:later)
0.74 (immigration restrictions; began; T:in 1875)

Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, said the question should be put squarely to the Supreme Court.
0.96 (Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas; said; the question should be put squarely to the Supreme Court)
0.90 Context(Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas said,List([0, 52))):(the question; should be put squarely; to the Supreme Court)

He said it is unfair to count illegal aliens in reapportionment.
0.26 (He; said; it is unfair to count illegal aliens in reapportionment)

``It just does not make any sense,'' Dole said.
0.81 (It just does not make any sense; said; Dole)
0.40 Context(It just does not make any sense said,List([2, 46))):(It; just does not make; any sense)

``It does violate the constitutional principle of one man, one vote.''
0.45 (It; does violate; the constitutional principle of one man)

But opponents of the Shelby measure said apportionment doesn't involve who votes and who doesn't.
0.94 (opponents of the Shelby measure; said; apportionment doesn't involve who votes and who doesn't)
0.89 Context(opponents of the Shelby measure said,List([4, 40))):(apportionment; does n't involve; who votes and who doesn't)

Women couldn't vote when the Constitution and the 14th Amendment were adopted, but they always were counted.
0.90 (Women; could n't vote; T:when the Constitution and the 14th Amendment were adopted, but they always were counted)
0.85 (the Constitution and the 14th Amendment; were adopted; )
0.46 (they; were counted; T:always)

Children can't vote, but they count, too.
0.71 (Children; ca n't vote; )
0.23 (they; count too; )

The amendment was adopted after the Senate voted 58 to 41 against a move to reject it, and 56 to 43 against scuttling it as unconstitutional.
0.95 (The amendment; was adopted; T:after the Senate voted 58 to 41 against a move)
0.93 (the Senate; voted; 58 to 41; against a move)

Shelby said that is sure to put the matter into the hands of the courts for a final judgment.
0.12 (that; to put; the matter; into the hands of the courts; for a final judgment)
0.84 (Shelby; said; that is sure to put the matter into the hands of the courts for a final judgment)
0.21 Context(Shelby said,List([0, 11))):(that; is; sure to put the matter into the hands of the courts for a final judgment)

``Somebody is going to challenge it ...'' he said.
0.80 (Somebody; to challenge; it)
0.63 (Somebody is going to challenge it; said; he)

``Then, for the first time, we will let the Supreme Court of the United States decide something that we need an answer to ...''
0.45 (we; need; an answer to)
0.58 (we; will let; the Supreme Court of the United States decide something; T:Then; T:for the first time)
0.76 Context(we will let,List([28, 39))):(the Supreme Court of the United States; decide; something that we need an answer to)

