In a blow to California and other states with large immigrant populations, the  Senate voted Friday to bar the Census Bureau from counting illegal aliens in  the 1990 population count.
0.93 (the Census Bureau; from counting; illegal aliens; L:in  the 1990 population count)
0.97 (the  Senate; voted; T:Friday; to bar the Census Bureau from counting illegal aliens in  the 1990 population count; L:In a blow to California and other states with large immigrant populations)
0.88 Context(the Senate voted,List([75, 92))):(the  Senate; voted to bar; the Census Bureau; from counting illegal aliens in  the 1990 population count)

The action came on a voice vote, despite arguments from the Bush Administration  and other opponents that it is both unconstitutional and unworkable.
0.90 (The action; came; T:on a voice vote)
0.28 (it; is; both unconstitutional and unworkable)

Just  before the voice vote, the senators voted, 50 to 41, against killing the  proposal to bar aliens from the count.
0.93 (the senators; voted; 50 to 41; T:Just  before the voice vote)

A Senate-House conference committee will decide whether the prohibition against  including illegal immigrants in the census totals will be retained or dropped  from a $17.4-billion appropriations bill for the State, Justice and Commerce  departments.
0.97 (the prohibition against  including illegal immigrants in the census totals; dropped; from a $17.4-billion appropriations bill for the State, Justice and Commerce  departments)
0.97 (A Senate-House conference committee; will decide; whether the prohibition against  including illegal immigrants in the census totals will be retained or dropped  from a $17.4-billion appropriations bill for the State, Justice and Commerce  departments)
0.82 Context(A Senate - House conference committee will decide,List([0, 47))):(the prohibition against  including illegal immigrants in the census totals; will be retained; )

Even if the prohibition survives, Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher has  said that he would ask President Bush to veto any bill that comes to his desk  with such a provision.
0.80 (President Bush; to veto; any bill that comes to his desk  with such a provision)
0.81 (any bill; comes; to his desk)
0.85 (Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher; has said; that he would ask President Bush to veto any bill)
0.43 Context(Secretary of Commerce Robert A. Mosbacher has said,List([34, 85))):(he; would ask; President Bush; to veto any bill)

At stake are the number of seats in Congress for California, Florida, New York,  Illinois, Pennsylvania and other states that will be reapportioned on the basis  of next year's census.
0.95 (At stake; are; the number of seats in Congress for California, Florida, New York,  Illinois, Pennsylvania and other states)
0.70 (other states; will be reapportioned; )
0.50 (stake; are the number of; seats)

Federal aid to states also is frequently based on population counts, so  millions of dollars in grants and other funds made available on a per capita  basis would be affected.
0.93 (Federal aid to states; also is based; on population counts; T:frequently)
0.81 (millions of dollars in grants and other funds; would be affected; )

The issue cuts across partisan lines in the Senate, with Minority Leader Bob  Dole (R-Kan.)
0.94 (The issue; cuts; across partisan lines in the Senate)

arguing against the White House position on grounds that  including illegal aliens in the census is unfair to American citizens.
0.95 (including illegal aliens in the census; is; unfair to American citizens)

Loss of Seats Cited  "Some states will lose congressional seats because of illegal aliens," Dole  argued.
0.73 (Dole; argued; )
0.92 Context(Dole argued,List([92, 104))):(Loss of Seats; Cited; Some states will lose congressional seats because of illegal aliens)
0.88 Context(Loss of Seats Cited Dole argued,List([0, 104))):(Some states; will lose; congressional seats; because of illegal aliens)

Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) said that Georgia and Indiana both lost  House seats after the 1980 Census, and California and New York -- centers of  illegal immigration -- each gained seats.  "The bottom line is illegal aliens ought to be deported, not counted," Cochran  said.
0.70 (illegal aliens; to be deported; )
1.00 (Sen. Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) said that Georgia and Indiana both lost  House seats after the 1980 Census, and California and New York -- centers of  illegal immigration -- each gained seats.  "The bottom line is illegal aliens ought to be deported, not counted; said; Cochran)
0.87 Context(Sen. Thad Cochran ( R - Miss . ) said that Georgia and Indiana both lost House seats after the 1980 Census , and California and New York -- centers of illegal immigration -- each gained seats . " The bottom line is illegal aliens ought to be deported , not counted said,List([0, 274))):(Sen. Thad Cochran; said; that Georgia and Indiana both lost  House seats after the 1980 Census)
0.92 Context(Sen. Thad Cochran ( R - Miss . ) said that Georgia and Indiana both lost House seats after the 1980 Census , and California and New York -- centers of illegal immigration -- each gained seats . " The bottom line is illegal aliens ought to be deported , not counted said,List([0, 274))):(The bottom line; is; illegal aliens ought to be deported, not counted)

Sen. Pete Wilson (R-Calif.)

countered that excluding illegal residents from the  decennial census is unfair to the states that have suffered from a huge influx  of immigration beyond the legal limits.
0.93 (the states; have suffered; from a huge influx  of immigration beyond the legal limits)

"There are enormous additional costs for states who have had a surge of  population," Wilson said, adding that those states should receive additional  federal aid to cope with the added problems.
0.88 (states; have had; a surge of  population)
0.80 (There are enormous additional costs for states; said; Wilson)
0.81 Context(There are enormous additional costs for states said,List([1, 97))):(Wilson; adding; that those states should receive additional  federal aid to cope with the added problems)
0.88 Context(There are enormous additional costs for states Wilson said adding,List([1, 105))):(those states; should receive; additional  federal aid)
0.88 Context(There are enormous additional costs for states Wilson said adding those states should receive,List([1, 138))):(those states; should receive additional  federal aid to cope; with the added problems)
0.50 (There; are enormous additional costs for; states)

Opponents of a ban on counting illegal aliens said that a ban is impractical  because the Census Bureau already has printed questionnaires that do not  contain any question about legality of residence.
0.92 (the Census Bureau; has printed; questionnaires that do not  contain any question about legality of residence; T:already)
0.88 (questionnaires; do not contain; any question about legality of residence)
0.90 (Opponents of a ban on counting illegal aliens; said; that a ban is impractical  because the Census Bureau already has printed questionnaires)
0.92 Context(Opponents of a ban on counting illegal aliens said,List([0, 50))):(a ban; is; impractical; because the Census Bureau already has printed questionnaires)

For 190 years, said Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan (D-N.Y.), the federal  government has counted all inhabitants without regard to citizenship in  accordance with the Constitution's provisions.
0.91 (the federal  government; has counted; all inhabitants)

"Fiddling with the numbers" now  will destroy confidence in the census results, he added.
0.95 (Fiddling with the numbers" now  will destroy confidence in the census results; added; he)
0.93 Context(Fiddling with the numbers " now will destroy confidence in the census results added,List([1, 88))):(Fiddling with the numbers; will destroy; confidence in the census results; T:now)

The Senate's action was sharply criticized by Undersecretary of Commerce  Michael Darby, but he voiced hope that it would be reversed by a Senate-House  conference.
0.95 (The Senate's action; was sharply criticized; by Undersecretary of Commerce  Michael Darby)
0.24 (he; voiced; hope that it would be reversed by a Senate-House  conference)
0.50 (it; would be reversed; by a Senate-House  conference)

"There really is a widespread realization that this would not only be  unconstitutional but literally impossible," Darby said.
0.12 (this; would be; unconstitutional but literally impossible)
0.91 (There really is a widespread realization that this would not only be  unconstitutional but literally impossible; said; Darby)

But he added that he is "optimistic, cautiously optimistic," that House  conferees would resist the Senate-approved ban and not force Bush to veto the  legislation.
0.93 (House  conferees; not force; Bush; to veto the  legislation)
0.86 (Bush; to veto; the  legislation)
0.20 (he; added; that he is "optimistic, cautiously optimistic," that House  conferees would resist the Senate-approved ban and not force Bush to veto the  legislation)
0.18 Context(he added,List([4, 12))):(he; is cautiously optimistic; optimistic)
0.92 Context(he added he is cautiously optimistic,List([4, 58))):(House  conferees; would resist; the Senate-approved ban)

Mario Moreno, head of the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund, said he was  shocked by the Senate's decision.
0.85 (Mario Moreno; said; he was  shocked by the Senate's decision)
0.44 Context(Mario Moreno said,List([0, 67))):(he; was shocked; by the Senate's decision)
0.88 (Mario Moreno; [is] head of; the Mexican American Legal Defense Fund)

"It is going to have a dramatic and  disastrous impact in the Hispanic community," Moreno said.
0.41 (It; to have; a dramatic and  disastrous impact in the Hispanic community)
0.89 (It is going to have a dramatic and  disastrous impact in the Hispanic community; said; Moreno)

"People are going to  be discouraged from participating."
0.72 (People; to be discouraged; from participating)

A Census Bureau spokesman took a more dispassionate view, however.
0.94 (A Census Bureau spokesman; took; a more dispassionate view; however)

"Our position is that we count everybody at their place of residence," said  bureau spokesman James Gorman.
0.79 (Our position is that we count everybody at their place of residence; said; bureau spokesman James Gorman)
0.27 Context(Our position is that we count everybody at their place of residence said,List([1, 75))):(Our position; is; that we count everybody at their place of residence)
0.39 (James Gorman; [is] said spokesman [of]; bureau)

"If Congress passes a law that says we will or  will not count people, we will do what it says."
0.78 (Congress; passes; a law that says we will or  will not count people)
0.81 (a law; says; we will or  will not count people)
0.26 (we; will do; what it says)
0.16 Context(we will do,List([71, 81))):(it; says; )

