Though the forms for the 1990 census are already at the printers, Congress is contemplating adding a question: Are you an illegal immigrant?
0.93 (the forms for the 1990 census; are; T:already; at the printers)
0.83 (Congress; is contemplating; adding a question: Are you an illegal immigrant)
0.83 Context(Congress is contemplating,List([66, 91))):(Congress; is contemplating adding; a question: Are you an illegal immigrant)

The Census Bureau, as it has in the past, is planning to count all residents of the nation regardless of legal status.
0.52 (it; has; T:in the past)
0.94 (The Census Bureau; is planning; to count all residents of the nation regardless of legal status)
0.90 Context(The Census Bureau is planning,List([0, 53))):(The Census Bureau; is planning to count regardless; all residents of the nation)

But the Senate already has voted to force the Census Bureau to exclude illegal immigrants in preparing tallies for congressional reapportionment.
0.93 (the Census Bureau; to exclude; illegal immigrants; in preparing tallies for congressional reapportionment)
0.97 (the Senate; has voted; to force the Census Bureau to exclude illegal immigrants in preparing tallies for congressional reapportionment; T:already)
0.94 Context(the Senate has voted,List([4, 32))):(the Senate; has voted to force; the Census Bureau; to exclude illegal immigrants in preparing tallies for congressional reapportionment)

A majority of the members of the House of Representatives has signaled support.
0.96 (A majority of the members of the House of Representatives; has signaled; support)

"It is wrong to apportion congressional seats by counting people who would be deported if our immigration laws were enforced," Rep. Thomas Petri (R., Wis.) said in a recent House debate.
0.75 (It is wrong to apportion congressional seats by counting people; said; L:in a recent House debate)
0.68 (people; would be deported; )
0.36 (our immigration laws; were enforced; )

Replied Rep. Jim Kolbe (R., Ariz.): "A very clear reading of the Constitution says that we shall count all those who are present."
0.28 (all those; are; present)

Although the debate is often couched in constitutional arguments, it's largely driven by geography.
0.92 (the debate; is couched; L:in constitutional arguments; T:often)
0.45 (it; 's largely driven; by geography)

Wisconsin has few illegal immigrants; Arizona has lots.
0.92 (Arizona; has; lots)
0.92 Context(Arizona has,List([38, 49))):(Wisconsin; has; few illegal immigrants)

"It boils down to regional politics," says Arturo Vargas, census-program director for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, one of several Hispanic organizations lobbying in favor of counting illegal immigrants.
0.91 (several Hispanic organizations; lobbying; in favor of counting illegal immigrants)
0.68 (It boils down to regional politics; says; Arturo Vargas)
0.38 (Arturo Vargas; [is] census-program director for; the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund)

Counting illegal immigrants in 1990 is likely to mean one less seat in the House for Pennsylvania and one more for California, according to the private Population Reference Bureau.
0.97 (Counting illegal immigrants in 1990; is; likely to mean one less seat in the House for Pennsylvania and one more for California)

The Census Bureau's chief antagonist in the Senate, Sen. Richard Shelby (D., Ala.), says seats for Connecticut, Michigan, North Carolina and Alabama also are at risk.
0.95 (Sen. Richard Shelby; says; seats for Connecticut, Michigan, North Carolina and Alabama also are at risk)
0.96 Context(Sen. Richard Shelby says,List([52, 88))):(seats for Connecticut, Michigan, North Carolina and Alabama; also are; at risk)

On the other hand, Texas, Florida and New York could benefit.
0.85 (Texas, Florida and New York; could benefit; )

"Illegal aliens are actually taking representation away from Americans," says David Ray, spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
0.95 (Illegal aliens are actually taking representation away from Americans; says; David Ray)
0.90 Context(Illegal aliens are actually taking representation away from Americans says,List([1, 77))):(Illegal aliens; are actually taking; representation; away from Americans)
0.38 (David Ray; [is] spokesman for; the Federation)

The Census Bureau, based on comparisons of its data with figures kept by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, estimates that it counted about two million illegal immigrants in 1980, half of them in California.
0.86 (The Census Bureau; based; on comparisons of its data with figures)
0.93 (figures; kept; by the Immigration and Naturalization Service)
0.78 (The Census Bureau; estimates; that it counted about two million illegal immigrants in 1980, half of them in California)
0.40 Context(The Census Bureau estimates,List([0, 126))):(it; counted; about two million illegal immigrants)

That meant one extra seat in the House for California and New York and one less seat for Indiana and Georgia.
0.54 (That; meant; one extra seat in the House for California and New York and one less seat for Indiana and Georgia)

"You end up diluting the vote when you start including illegals," says Rep. Thomas Ridge (R., Pa.), who leads the charge against the practice in the House.
0.42 (You; diluting; the vote; T:when you start including illegals)
0.62 (you; start; including illegals)
0.55 Context(you start,List([35, 44))):(you; start including; illegals)
0.68 (You end up diluting the vote; says; Rep. Thomas Ridge)
0.41 Context(You end up diluting the vote says,List([1, 70))):(You; end up; diluting the vote when you start including illegals)
0.92 Context(You end up diluting the vote says,List([1, 70))):(Rep. Thomas Ridge; leads; the charge against the practice in the House)

Organizations that represent Hispanics are particularly worried about the congressional campaign.
0.90 (Organizations; represent; Hispanics)
0.94 (Organizations that represent Hispanics; are; particularly worried about the congressional campaign)

They fear that any attempt to ascertain the legal status of respondents will exacerbate difficulties the Census Bureau already faces in accurately counting Hispanics and blacks.
0.94 (difficulties; faces; L:in accurately counting Hispanics and blacks; T:already)
0.43 (They; fear; that any attempt to ascertain the legal status of respondents will exacerbate difficulties)
0.97 Context(They fear,List([0, 9))):(any attempt to ascertain the legal status of respondents; will exacerbate; difficulties the Census Bureau already faces in accurately counting Hispanics and blacks)

"As it is, the Census Bureau has a tremendous challenge in trying to convince everybody that the census is confidential," Mr. Vargas says.
0.24 (it; is; )
0.99 (the Census Bureau has a tremendous challenge in trying to convince everybody that the census is confidential; says; Mr. Vargas)
0.90 Context(the Census Bureau has a tremendous challenge in trying to convince everybody that the census is confidential says,List([11, 137))):(the Census Bureau; has; a tremendous challenge in trying to convince everybody that the census is confidential)
0.81 (the census; is; confidential)

"If the Census Bureau attempts to ask people their immigration status, that's going to be even harder."
0.04 (that; to be; even harder)
0.86 (the Census Bureau; attempts; to ask people their immigration status)
0.86 Context(the Census Bureau attempts,List([4, 30))):(the Census Bureau; attempts to ask; people; their immigration status)

The Census Bureau agrees.
0.80 (The Census Bureau; agrees; )

"We tell people: Put your name down on the census form.

We won't report you to the housing authority {if there are too many occupants}," says Peter Bonpanne, an assistant director.
0.86 (We won't report you to the housing authority {if there are too many occupants}; says; Peter Bonpanne)
0.26 Context(We wo n't report you to the housing authority { if there are too many occupants } says,List([0, 85))):(We; wo n't report; you; to the housing authority; if there are too many occupants)

"If they see a lot of questions on there about somebody's legal status, that could hurt all kinds of people's participation."
0.62 (they; see; a lot of questions on there)
0.91 (somebody's legal status; could hurt; all kinds of people's participation)

Although the 106 million census forms can be reprinted if Congress acts soon, wording a question so that illegal immigrants answer accurately is a challenge, Mr. Bonpanne says.
0.99 (Although the 106 million census forms can be reprinted if Congress acts soon, wording a question so that illegal immigrants answer accurately is a challenge; says; Mr. Bonpanne)
0.75 Context(Although the 106 million census forms can be reprinted if Congress acts soon , wording a question so that illegal immigrants answer accurately is a challenge says,List([0, 175))):(the 106 million census forms; can be reprinted; )
0.84 (Congress; acts; T:soon)
0.73 (illegal immigrants; answer accurately; )
0.96 (wording a question so that illegal immigrants answer accurately; is; a challenge)

The bureau already plans to ask one in six respondents if they are citizens.
0.62 (they; are; citizens)
0.93 (The bureau; plans; to ask one in six respondents if they are citizens; T:already)
0.86 Context(The bureau plans,List([0, 24))):(The bureau; plans to ask; one in six respondents)

To satisfy congressional critics, it would have to ask everyone that question, and then ask the legal status of anyone who isn't a citizen.
0.20 (it; to ask; everyone; that question)
0.45 (it; to ask; the legal status of anyone; T:then)
0.90 (anyone; is n't; a citizen)

Rep. Ridge dismisses the practical problems.
0.93 (Rep. Ridge; dismisses; the practical problems)

"We're spending billions on the census, and the only thing we get is a bunch of belly-aching about how difficult it will be," he complains.
0.68 (the only thing; get; we)
0.73 (the only thing we get; is; a bunch of belly-aching about how difficult it will be)
0.19 (it; will be; )
0.93 (We're spending billions on the census, and the only thing we get is a bunch of belly-aching about how difficult it will be; complains; he)
0.40 Context(We 're spending billions on the census , and the only thing we get is a bunch of belly - aching about how difficult it will be complains,List([1, 138))):(We; 're spending; billions; on the census)

"The primary purpose of the census is to distribute political power . . .
0.95 (The primary purpose of the census; is; to distribute political power)

not to gather demographic information."

The Senate, by a vote of 58-41, added a provision to a pending immigration bill to require the government to subtract illegal immigrants when it comes up with figures used for reapportionment.
0.91 (The Senate; added; a provision; to a pending immigration bill)
0.92 (a pending immigration bill; to require; the government)
0.83 (the government; to subtract; illegal immigrants; T:when it comes up with figures)
0.89 (figures; used; for reapportionment)

Because California, Texas and other populous states that benefit from counting the illegal immigrants have such large delegations in the House, the House has always presented a bigger obstacle to the opponents of counting such immigrants.
0.90 (other populous states; benefit; from counting the illegal immigrants)
0.95 (California, Texas and other populous states; have; such large delegations in the House)
0.96 (the House; has presented; a bigger obstacle to the opponents of counting such immigrants; T:always)

The House did open the door to an amendment to a spending bill that would have barred census takers from "knowingly" counting any illegal immigrants, but the provision was quickly sidetracked on procedural grounds.
0.93 (The House; did open; the door; to an amendment to a spending bill)
0.90 (a spending bill; would have barred; census takers; from "knowingly" counting any illegal immigrants)
0.90 (the provision; was quickly sidetracked; L:on procedural grounds)

All sides in the debate predict a lawsuit no matter what Congress does.
0.92 (All sides in the debate; predict no matter; a lawsuit)
0.77 (Congress; does; )

In 1980, a federal appeals court upheld a lower-court decision throwing out a suit that sought to bar the government from counting illegal immigrants.
0.95 (a federal appeals court; upheld; a lower-court decision throwing out a suit; T:In 1980)
0.88 (a lower-court decision; throwing; out; a suit that sought to bar the government from counting illegal immigrants)
0.86 (a suit; sought; to bar the government from counting illegal immigrants)
0.86 Context(a suit sought,List([76, 94))):(a suit; sought to bar; the government; from counting illegal immigrants)

A similar suit was dismissed this year when a federal district judge in Pittsburgh ruled that the states that sued -- Pennsylvania, Kansas and Alabama -- couldn't show they had been harmed.
0.80 (A similar suit; was dismissed; T:this year; T:when a federal district judge in Pittsburgh ruled that the states that sued -- Pennsylvania, Kansas and Alabama -- couldn't show they had been harmed)
0.85 (a federal district judge in Pittsburgh; ruled; that the states that sued -- Pennsylvania, Kansas and Alabama -- couldn't show they had been harmed)
0.80 Context(a federal district judge in Pittsburgh ruled,List([44, 88))):(the states that sued; could n't show; they had been harmed)
0.64 Context(a federal district judge in Pittsburgh ruled the states that sued could n't show,List([44, 167))):(the states; sued; )
0.27 Context(a federal district judge in Pittsburgh ruled the states that sued could n't show,List([44, 167))):(they; had been harmed; )

The Constitution simply calls for apportioning the House on the basis of the "the whole number of persons" in each state.
0.96 (The Constitution; simply calls; for apportioning the House on the basis of the "the whole number of persons" in each state)

The Constitution originally called for counting "free persons" and indentured servants, and for counting slaves as three-fifths of a person.
0.97 (The Constitution; called; for counting "free persons" and indentured servants, and for counting slaves as three-fifths of a person; T:originally)

That was changed with the passage of the 14th Amendment in 1868.
0.15 (That; was changed; )

Only "Indians not taxed" were excluded, but no one has fallen into that category since 1940.
0.77 (no one; has fallen; into that category; T:since 1940)

Much of the argument in Congress turns on the use of the word "person" in references to the census.
0.88 (Much of the argument in Congress; turns; )

Elsewhere in the Constitution, the framers used the word "citizen."
0.95 (the framers; used; the word; L:Elsewhere in the Constitution)

They wrote, for instance, that only those who have been "seven years a citizen of the United States" can serve in the House.
0.53 (only those; have been; seven years a citizen of the United States)
0.42 (They; wrote; for instance; that only those who have been "seven years a citizen of the United States" can serve in the House)
0.98 Context(They wrote,List([0, 10))):(only those who have been "seven years a citizen of the United States"; can serve; L:in the House)

The word "person" was repeated in the 14th Amendment, which was drafted after the Civil War.
0.90 (The word; was repeated; L:in the 14th Amendment)
0.93 (the 14th Amendment; was drafted; T:after the Civil War)

Those in Congress and at the Census Bureau who favor continuing the practice of counting all residents of the U.S. conclude that this language unambiguously resolves the debate.
0.84 (Those in Congress and at the Census Bureau; conclude; that this language unambiguously resolves the debate)
0.96 Context(Those in Congress and at the Census Bureau conclude,List([0, 123))):(Those in Congress and at the Census Bureau; conclude favor; continuing the practice of counting all residents of the U.S.)
0.94 Context(Those in Congress and at the Census Bureau favor conclude,List([0, 123))):(Those in Congress and at the Census Bureau; conclude favor continuing; the practice of counting all residents of the U.S.)
0.88 Context(Those in Congress and at the Census Bureau conclude,List([0, 123))):(this language; unambiguously resolves; the debate)

Their opponents say the drafters of the Constitution and the 14th Amendment never even considered the concept of an "illegal immigrant," let alone contemplated their current numbers.
0.60 (Their opponents; say; the drafters of the Constitution and the 14th Amendment never even considered the concept of an "illegal immigrant," let alone contemplated their current numbers)
0.95 Context(Their opponents say,List([0, 19))):(the drafters of the Constitution and the 14th Amendment; never even considered; the concept of an "illegal immigrant)

--- @ Estimates of Illegal Aliens  @ Counted in 1980 Census  @ TOTAL U.S. 2,057,000  @ California 1,024,000  @ New York 234,000  @ Texas 186,000  @ Illinois 135,000  @ Florida 80,000  @ Source: Census Bureau

