Drug abusers who are infected with the AIDS virus and tuberculosis bacteria should be treated with medicine to prevent full-blown TB, says a study published today.
0.93 (Drug abusers; are infected; with the AIDS virus and tuberculosis bacteria)
0.90 (a study; published; T:today)

Doctors have noticed a growing prevalence of tuberculosis in recent years among people at high risk of AIDS, especially drug addicts.

In the study published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the TB usually resulted from activation of lingering tuberculosis infections, not new exposures to the bacteria, in people who also are infected with the AIDS virus.
0.92 (the study; published; L:in the New England Journal of Medicine)
0.90 (people; are infected; with the AIDS virus)

The doctors warned that besides being at risk of getting tuberculosis themselves, AIDS-infected addicts who carry the TB bacteria also may pass the germs to people they live with, to health care workers and other people.
0.36 (they; live; with)
0.73 (The doctors; warned; that besides being at risk of getting tuberculosis themselves, AIDS-infected addicts who carry the TB bacteria also may pass the germs to people)
0.91 Context(The doctors warned,List([0, 18))):(AIDS-infected addicts; also may pass; the germs; to people)
0.92 Context(The doctors warned AIDS - infected addicts also may pass,List([0, 143))):(AIDS-infected addicts; also may pass the germs carry; the TB bacteria)

``The aggressive identification and treatment of HIV-infected intravenous drug users with latent tuberculous infection is therefore of both clinical and public health importance,'' wrote Dr. Peter A. Selwyn of Montefiore Medical Center in New York.
0.99 (The aggressive identification and treatment of HIV-infected intravenous drug users with latent tuberculous infection is therefore of both clinical and public health importance; wrote; Dr. Peter A. Selwyn of Montefiore Medical Center in New York)
0.98 Context(The aggressive identification and treatment of HIV - infected intravenous drug users with latent tuberculous infection is therefore of both clinical and public health importance wrote,List([2, 186))):(The aggressive identification and treatment of HIV-infected intravenous drug users with latent tuberculous infection; is; therefore of both clinical and public health importance)

People may carry either the AIDS virus or tuberculosis bacteria for many years without getting sick.
0.91 (People; may carry; either the AIDS virus or tuberculosis bacteria; T:for many years)

While most people with the AIDS virus eventually go on to get acquired immune deficiency syndrome, people who carry the tuberculosis bacteria ordinarily have only about a 10 percent life-long risk of getting TB.
0.97 (most people with the AIDS virus; go on; T:to get acquired immune deficiency syndrome; T:eventually)
0.95 (people who carry the tuberculosis bacteria; ordinarily have; only about a 10 percent life-long risk of getting TB)
0.85 Context(people who carry the tuberculosis bacteria ordinarily have,List([99, 157))):(people; carry; the tuberculosis bacteria)

HIV _ the AIDS viurus _ weakens the body's defenses against disease.
0.92 (HIV; _; the AIDS viurus _ weakens the body's defenses against disease)
0.92 Context(HIV _,List([0, 5))):(the AIDS viurus _; weakens; the body's defenses against disease)

The study suggests that it lowers resistance to the tuberculosis bacteria, putting people at much higher risk of TB.
0.73 (The study; suggests; that it lowers resistance to the tuberculosis bacteria, putting people at much higher risk of TB)
0.39 Context(The study suggests,List([0, 18))):(it; lowers; resistance; to the tuberculosis bacteria)
0.33 Context(The study suggests it lowers,List([0, 33))):(it; lowers resistance putting; people; at much higher risk of TB)

The study was conducted on 520 drug users who were in a methadone program.
0.90 (The study; was conducted; T:on 520 drug users)
0.90 (520 drug users; were; in a methadone program)

When the study began, 42 percent already were infected with HIV.
0.73 (the study; began; )
0.94 (42 percent; were infected; with HIV; T:When the study began; T:already)

Twenty-three percent of those with HIV also carried TB bacteria as did 20 percent of those who were free of the AIDS virus.
0.89 (Twenty-three percent of those with HIV; carried; TB bacteria; T:as did 20 percent of those)
0.24 (those; were; free of the AIDS virus)

During almost two years of followup, active tuberculosis developed in eight of the AIDS-infected people, but in none of those who did not have HIV.
0.95 (active tuberculosis; developed; L:in eight of the AIDS-infected people; T:During almost two years of followup)
0.24 (those; did not have; HIV)

Seven of the eight TB cases occurred in people who were already infected with tuberculosis bacteria before the study began.
0.95 (Seven of the eight TB cases; occurred; L:in people)
0.89 (people; were infected; with tuberculosis bacteria; T:before the study began; T:already)
0.73 (the study; began; )

The doctors noted that 13 people who carried HIV and TB bacteria were treated with the drug isoniazid, and none of them went on to get active tuberculosis.
0.90 (13 people; carried; HIV and TB bacteria)
0.36 (none of them; went on; )
0.62 (none of them; to get; active tuberculosis)
0.84 (The doctors; noted; that 13 people who carried HIV and TB bacteria were treated with the drug isoniazid)
0.95 Context(The doctors noted,List([0, 17))):(13 people who carried HIV and TB bacteria; were treated; with the drug isoniazid)

However, seven of 36 people with both infections who did not take the medicine got TB.
0.97 (seven of 36 people with both infections who did not take the medicine; got; TB)
0.91 Context(seven of 36 people with both infections who did not take the medicine got,List([9, 82))):(seven of 36 people with both infections; did not take; the medicine)

The doctors said that the drug is now administered along with daily methadone doses at the clinic where the study was conducted.
0.93 (the study; was conducted; L:the clinic)
0.81 (The doctors; said; that the drug is now administered along with daily methadone doses at the clinic)
0.90 Context(The doctors said,List([0, 16))):(the drug; is administered; L:along with daily methadone doses at the clinic; T:now)

