Black Americans suffer six times more tuberculosis than whites do, and one important reason appears to be a genetic susceptibility to the disease, according to a study today.
0.93 (Black Americans; suffer; six times more tuberculosis than whites do)
0.77 (whites; do; )
0.75 (one important reason; appears; )
0.90 (one important reason; to be; a genetic susceptibility to the disease)

The research found that when living conditions are identical, black people are twice as likely as whites to get infected with the TB bacteria.
0.77 (living conditions; are; identical)
0.92 (whites; get; infected with the TB bacteria)
0.91 (whites; to get infected; with the TB bacteria)
0.81 (The research; found; that when living conditions are identical, black people are twice as likely)
0.96 Context(The research found,List([0, 18))):(black people; are; twice as likely as whites to get infected with the TB bacteria; T:when living conditions are identical)

The relatively high rate of TB among blacks has traditionally been blamed on crowded housing and other conditions of poverty.
0.96 (The relatively high rate of TB among blacks; has traditionally been blamed; on crowded housing and other conditions of poverty)

While social factors undoubtedly play a central role, the study suggests that innate susceptibility also contributes.
0.90 (social factors; undoubtedly play; a central role)
0.72 (the study; suggests; that innate susceptibility also contributes)
0.64 Context(the study suggests,List([54, 72))):(innate susceptibility; contributes; )

``We found that there is a systemic difference between whites and blacks,'' said Dr. William W. Stead.
0.79 (We found that there is a systemic difference between whites and blacks; said; Dr. William W. Stead)
0.17 Context(We found that there is a systemic difference between whites and blacks said,List([2, 80))):(We; found; that there is a systemic difference between whites and blacks)
0.39 (there; is a systemic difference between; whites and blacks)

``Whites seem to be more able to fend off the organism without it's ever being able to establish an infection.''
0.71 (Whites; seem; )
0.86 (Whites; to be; more able to fend off the organism without it's ever being able to establish an infection)
0.88 (Whites; to fend off; the organism)
0.49 (it; 's being; able to establish an infection; T:ever)
0.41 (it; to establish; an infection)

Stead, a tuberculosis specialist at the Arkansas Department of Health, discovered the racial difference while analyzing health statistics from nursing homes and prisons.
0.88 (Stead; discovered; the racial difference; T:while analyzing health statistics from nursing homes and prisons)
0.83 Context(Stead discovered,List([0, 81))):(Stead; discovered the racial difference analyzing; health statistics from nursing homes and prisons)

``It's a very intriguing finding,'' commented Dr. George Comstock of Johns Hopkins University.
0.68 (It's a very intriguing finding; commented; Dr. George Comstock of Johns Hopkins University)
0.47 Context(It 's a very intriguing finding commented,List([2, 45))):(It; 's; a very intriguing finding)

``I never quite believe anything until somebody replicates it.
0.31 (I; never quite believe; anything; T:until somebody replicates it)
0.82 (somebody; replicates; it)

But I don't know of any real holes in this one.''
0.19 (I; do n't know; )

At the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Dr. George Curlin called the findings ``plausible and provocative.''
0.97 (Dr. George Curlin; called; the findings; plausible and provocative; L:At the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)

However, he added: ``I'm scared to death that people are going to say this explains it all and forget everything else.
0.82 (people; to forget; everything else)
0.14 (he; added; I'm scared to death that people are going to say this explains it all and forget everything else)
0.21 Context(he added,List([9, 17))):(I; 'm; scared to death that people are going to say this explains it all and forget everything else)
0.76 (people; to say; this explains it)
0.21 Context(people to say,List([46, 69))):(this; explains; it)

Of the total six times difference, what proportion is attributable to biology and what to social factors?
0.93 (what proportion; is; attributable to biology and what to social factors)

I would say that biology is relatively minor.''
0.19 (I; would say; that biology is relatively minor)
0.75 Context(I would say,List([0, 11))):(biology; is; relatively minor)

Stead's study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, was based largely on a review of 25,398 elderly people who were free of TB infection when they were admitted to Arkansas nursing homes.
0.93 (Stead's study; published; L:in the New England Journal of Medicine)
0.92 (Stead's study; was based; largely on a review of 25,398 elderly people)
0.91 (25,398 elderly people; were; free of TB infection)
0.66 (they; were admitted; to Arkansas nursing homes)

When they were retested at least two months later, 14 percent of blacks and 7 percent of whites showed evidence of new infections.
0.62 (they; were retested; T:at least two months later)
0.95 (14 percent of blacks and 7 percent of whites; showed; evidence of new infections; T:When they were retested at least two months later)

Prison data from Arkansas and Minnesota also found that black inmates were twice as likely as white prisoners to catch the bacteria while incarcerated.
0.89 (black inmates; to catch; the bacteria; T:while incarcerated)
0.88 (Prison data from Arkansas and Minnesota; found; that black inmates were twice as likely as white prisoners to catch the bacteria)
0.92 Context(Prison data from Arkansas and Minnesota found,List([0, 50))):(black inmates; were; twice as likely as white prisoners to catch the bacteria)

Another soon-to-be published study reports the discovery of a racial difference in the way blood cells respond to the TB bacteria, which could help explain why blacks seem to be more prone to tuberculosis.
0.94 (Another soon-to-be published study; reports; the discovery of a racial difference in the way)
0.79 (blacks; to be; more prone to tuberculosis)
0.92 (blood cells; respond; to the TB bacteria)
0.94 (the TB bacteria; could help; explain why blacks seem to be more prone to tuberculosis)
0.90 Context(the TB bacteria could help,List([114, 147))):(the TB bacteria; could help explain; why blacks seem to be more prone to tuberculosis)

About 22,000 cases of tuberculosis are reported annually in the United States, resulting in 1,700 deaths.
0.94 (About 22,000 cases of tuberculosis; are reported; T:annually; L:in the United States)

In the population at large, tuberculosis is about six times as common among blacks as whites.
0.95 (tuberculosis; is; about six times as common among blacks as whites; L:In the population at large)
0.39 (tuberculosis; is about six times as common among; blacks)

An estimated 10 million Americans are believed to be infected with the bacteria but not sick.
0.83 (An estimated 10 million Americans; are believed; )
0.93 (An estimated 10 million Americans; to be infected; with the bacteria but not sick)

The disease, which attacks the lungs, has long been associated with poor, crowded living conditions.
0.89 (The disease; attacks; the lungs)
0.94 (The disease, which attacks the lungs; has been associated; with poor, crowded living conditions; T:long)

Stead's study found that blacks got infected more readily than whites, regardless of the race of the person who initially brought the infection into the nursing home.
0.90 (blacks; got; infected more readily than whites, regardless of the race of the person)
0.93 (the person; brought; the infection; into the nursing home; T:initially)
0.87 (Stead's study; found; that blacks got infected more readily than whites, regardless of the race of the person)
0.40 Context(Stead 's study found,List([0, 19))):(blacks; got infected more readily regardless; )

In homes where the initial source of the disease was white, 17 percent of blacks and 12 percent of whites caught the infection.
0.97 (the initial source of the disease; was; white; L:homes)
0.97 (17 percent of blacks and 12 percent of whites; caught; the infection; L:In homes)

When the primary source was black, 12 percent of blacks and 8 percent of whites contracted the bacteria.
0.83 (the primary source; was; black)
0.97 (12 percent of blacks and 8 percent of whites; contracted; the bacteria; T:When the primary source was black)

This phase of the study also suggests, however, that infected whites are more potent spreaders of the infection than are blacks.
0.80 (This phase of the study; suggests; however; that infected whites are more potent spreaders of the infection than are blacks)
0.88 Context(This phase of the study suggests,List([0, 37))):(infected whites; are; more potent spreaders of the infection)
0.39 (infected whites; are more potent spreaders of; the infection)

Stead speculated that whites have evolved better defenses against TB, because the bacteria has long been common in Europe and parts of Africa north of the Sahara, but is traditionally rare in sub-Saharan Africa.
0.93 (the bacteria; has been; common; L:in Europe; T:long)
0.92 (whites; is; traditionally rare in sub-Saharan Africa)
0.87 (Stead; speculated; that whites have evolved better defenses against TB, because the bacteria has long been common in Europe and parts of Africa north of the Sahara, but is traditionally rare in sub-Saharan Africa)

By contrast, blacks are genetically more resistant than whites to malaria, which is common in Africa.
0.81 (blacks; are; genetically more resistant than whites to malaria)
0.92 (malaria; is; common in Africa)

In the other study, Dr. Alfred Crowle of Webb-Waring Lung Institute at the University of Colorado found differences in the resistance of germ-eating blood cells called macrophages.
0.98 (Dr. Alfred Crowle of Webb-Waring Lung Institute at the University of Colorado; found; differences in the resistance of germ-eating blood cells; L:In the other study)
0.93 (germ-eating blood cells; called; macrophages)

In blacks, these cells are more likely to harbor TB infections.
0.95 (these cells; are; more likely to harbor TB infections; L:In blacks)
0.90 (these cells; to harbor; TB infections)

``This helps explain why black people are more susceptible to tuberculosis than are white people,'' said Crowle.
0.95 (This helps explain why black people are more susceptible to tuberculosis; said; Crowle)
0.40 Context(This helps explain why black people are more susceptible to tuberculosis said,List([2, 104))):(This; helps; explain why black people are more susceptible to tuberculosis)
0.33 Context(This helps explain why black people are more susceptible to tuberculosis said,List([2, 104))):(This; helps explain; why black people are more susceptible to tuberculosis)
0.88 Context(This helps explain why black people are more susceptible to tuberculosis said,List([2, 104))):(black people; are; more susceptible to tuberculosis than are white people)

At the turn of the century, TB was the nation's leading cause of death.
0.93 (TB; was; the nation's leading cause of death; L:At the turn of the century)

The number of cases fell steadily in recent decades until 1984.
0.92 (The number of cases; fell steadily; T:in recent decades; until 1984)

Experts believe the decline has leveled off in part because of the emergence of the AIDS virus, which weaken the body's resistance to TB bacteria.
0.95 (the emergence of the AIDS virus; weaken; the body's resistance to TB bacteria)
0.93 (Experts; believe; the decline has leveled off in part because of the emergence of the AIDS virus)
0.88 Context(Experts believe,List([0, 15))):(the decline; has leveled off; because of the emergence of the AIDS virus)

Others possible factors include homelessness and immigration of people from areas where the disease is still common.
0.91 (Others possible factors; include; homelessness and immigration of people from areas)
0.96 (the disease; is; T:still; common; L:areas)

