How much more of an "investment" should American taxpayers make in the welfare system?

This is the question the House of Representatives is scheduled to take up today when it votes on the Family Welfare Reform Act of 1987.
0.61 (This; is; the question the House of Representatives is scheduled to take up today)
0.94 (the House of Representatives; is scheduled; to take up today when it votes on the Family Welfare Reform Act of 1987)
0.89 (the question; to take up; T:today; T:when it votes on the Family Welfare Reform Act of 1987)
0.50 (it; votes; on the Family Welfare Reform Act of 1987)

The bill proposes $5.2 billion in new spending over five years, and most of that will increase benefits currently received by welfare recipients.
0.90 (The bill; proposes; $5.2 billion in new spending over five years)
0.59 (most of that; will increase; benefits currently received by welfare recipients)
0.93 (benefits; received; by welfare recipients; T:currently)

It appears that what we have here is something of a Trojan horse -- a piece of legislation that is represented as "reform" when all it does is expand existing welfare programs.
0.23 (we; have; L:here)
0.68 (legislation; is represented; )
0.45 (it; does is expand; existing welfare programs)

The bill's questionable premise is that larger expenditures on welfare will reduce welfare dependency.
0.83 (The bill's questionable premise; is; that larger expenditures on welfare will reduce welfare dependency)
0.90 Context(The bill 's questionable premise is,List([0, 34))):(larger expenditures on welfare; will reduce; welfare dependency)

This thinking was nicely summarized by Rep. Anthony Beilenson, who said plainly, "The truth is, for welfare reform to be successful, it's got to be expensive."
0.92 (This thinking; was nicely summarized; by Rep. Anthony Beilenson)
0.20 (it; to be; expensive)
0.74 (The truth; to be; successful)
0.87 (Rep. Anthony Beilenson; said plainly; The truth is, for welfare reform to be successful, it's got to be expensive)
0.89 Context(Rep. Anthony Beilenson said plainly,List([39, 79))):(The truth; is; for welfare reform)
0.20 Context(Rep. Anthony Beilenson said plainly The truth is,List([39, 94))):(it; 's got; )

The proposed new spending on welfare should be viewed as an investment, say its proponents, led by Rep. Thomas Downey.
0.93 (The proposed new spending on welfare; should be viewed; as an investment)
0.70 (its proponents; led; by Rep. Thomas Downey)

They point out that part of the money will go for special education, training and work programs for welfare mothers, to induce them off the rolls and into jobs.
0.28 (They; point out; that part of the money will go for special education, training and work programs for welfare mothers, to induce them off the rolls and into jobs)
0.88 Context(They point out,List([0, 14))):(part of the money; will go; for special education, training and work programs for welfare mothers; to induce them off the rolls and into jobs)

At the same time they say, certain existing benefits -- mainly Aid to Families With Dependent Children (AFDC) -- must be increased to offset real declines since the base year of 1970.
0.70 (they; say; T:the same time)
0.96 (certain existing benefits; must be increased; to offset real declines since the base year of 1970; T:At the same time)

House members on both sides of the aisle agree that welfare-to-work programs are worthwhile.
0.87 (House members on both sides of the aisle; agree; that welfare-to-work programs are worthwhile)
0.72 Context(House members on both sides of the aisle agree,List([0, 46))):(welfare-to-work programs; are; worthwhile)

That conclusion was presumably the basis for the bipartisan consensus that was going to produce a serious welfare-reform bill this year.
0.90 (That conclusion; was presumably; the basis for the bipartisan consensus)
0.90 (the bipartisan consensus; to produce; a serious welfare-reform bill; T:this year)

But less than a quarter of the $5.2 billion outlay would go for that purpose.
0.88 (less than a quarter of the $5.2 billion outlay; would go; for that purpose)

The bulk of the new money would go to higher AFDC pay-outs, extension of mandatory benefits to two-parent families and maintenance of certain benefits for welfare recipients earning some income.
0.94 (The bulk of the new money; would go; to higher AFDC pay-outs)
0.90 (welfare recipients; earning; some income)

In short, the Family Welfare Reform Act amounts to an expanded investment in the status quo.
0.94 (the Family Welfare Reform Act; amounts; to an expanded investment in the status quo)

Of course, House Democrats could hardly promote this bill as more of the same.
0.89 (House Democrats; could promote; this bill; as more of the same)

That might produce reprisals from voters who've watched their tax dollars build and maintain the welfare system, with little evident return on their investment.
0.38 (That; might produce; reprisals from voters)
0.83 (voters; 've watched; their tax dollars build and maintain the welfare system, with little evident return on their investment)
0.76 Context(voters 've watched,List([34, 55))):(voters; 've watched maintain; the welfare system, with little evident return on their investment)

Instead, after nearly 20 years, the system's defenders and funders repeatedly tell the public that the problem, if anything, has gotten worse.
0.92 (the system's defenders and funders; repeatedly tell; the public; that the problem, if anything, has gotten worse; T:after nearly 20 years)
0.68 Context(the system 's defenders and funders repeatedly tell,List([32, 82))):(the problem; has gotten; worse)

So the House's liberal majority hoped to achieve an increase in welfare outlays by making a bow to "reform."
0.93 (the House's liberal majority; to achieve; an increase in welfare outlays)

In fact, while the level of AFDC benefits has decreased in real terms since 1970, the total level of all welfare benefits has not.
0.78 (the total level of all welfare benefits; has not; )
0.93 Context(the total level of all welfare benefits has not,List([82, 129))):(the level of AFDC benefits; has decreased; in real terms; T:since 1970)

Nearly all AFDC families also receive Medicaid coverage, for instance; more than three-quarters receive food stamps, and one-third have children who receive free school meals.
0.88 (children; receive; free school meals)
0.91 (more than three-quarters; receive; food stamps)
0.93 Context(more than three - quarters receive,List([71, 103))):(Nearly all AFDC families; receive; Medicaid coverage)

One-quarter receive housing assistance.
0.91 (One-quarter; receive; housing assistance)

Together, spending for the seven major welfare programs (those just mentioned plus the Women, Infants and Children program and the Low Income Energy Assistance program) has actually increased since 1970 by 232% in constant dollars, to an annual total $65.7 billion.

The House Democrats' claim that welfare recipients are worse off than they were in 1970 -- in terms of the level of benefits received -- is dubious.
0.83 (welfare recipients; are; worse off than they were in 1970)
0.36 (they; were; T:in 1970)
0.71 (benefits; received; )
0.89 (The House Democrats' claim that welfare recipients are worse off than they were in 1970 -- in terms of the level of benefits; is; dubious)

Measured in the terms that really count -- namely the number of welfare dependents liberated from the rolls -- the situation has become worse.
0.70 (the terms; really count; )
0.90 (welfare dependents; liberated; from the rolls)
0.94 (the situation; has become; worse; T:the rolls)

During the unprecedented expansion of the welfare state, the most notable and highly publicized phenomenon has been the development of an entrenched class of long-term welfare dependents.
0.98 (the most notable and highly publicized phenomenon; has been; the development of an entrenched class of long-term welfare dependents; T:During the unprecedented expansion of the welfare state)

It is difficult to accept that the $4.3 billion increase in basic benefits proposed in the Family Welfare Reform Act will do much of anything about the problem of hard-core welfare dependency.
0.92 (basic benefits; proposed; L:in the Family Welfare Reform Act)

At the least, welfare reform should have these goals: to shrink rather than enlarge the welfare system, to ultimately eliminate perverse incentives to remain on welfare, and to make work the focus of the system.
0.94 (welfare reform; should have; these goals: to shrink rather than enlarge the welfare system, to ultimately eliminate perverse incentives to remain on welfare, and to make work the focus of the system)
0.90 (perverse incentives; to remain; on welfare)

The House bill doesn't do that.
0.64 (The House bill; does n't do; that)

By adding several welfare programs to what already exists (without eliminating any), the House bill adds another layer to an already complex welfare system.
0.95 (the House bill; adds; another layer; to an already complex welfare system)

By further increasing rather than gradually reducing the level of benefits available to recipients, it makes welfare more, not less, enticing.
0.45 (it; makes; welfare more, not less)

By diluting proposed work-for-welfare requirements, it diminishes the importance of work.
0.45 (it; diminishes; the importance of work)

Earlier this year, there were hopeful signs that we would see sweeping, serious welfare-reform legislation emerge from Congress.
0.50 (we; would see; sweeping, serious welfare-reform legislation emerge from Congress)
0.39 (there; were hopeful signs that; we)

Democrats and Republicans alike agreed on the need for change.
0.93 (Democrats and Republicans; alike agreed; on the need for change)

This rare opportunity is being squandered.
0.75 (This rare opportunity; is being squandered; )

