U.S. Air Force war planes participating in Operation Desert Shield are flying again after they were ordered grounded for 24 hours following a rash of crashes.
0.95 (U.S. Air Force war planes; participating; in Operation Desert Shield)
0.93 (U.S. Air Force war planes; are flying; T:again; T:after they were ordered grounded for 24 hours following a rash of crashes)
0.36 (they; were ordered; grounded)
0.58 (they; grounded; T:for 24 hours; T:following a rash of crashes)

Pentagon and Air Force officials said regular training flight schedules resumed Thursday at noon local time (5 a.m.
0.96 (Pentagon and Air Force officials; said; regular training flight schedules resumed Thursday at noon local time)
0.92 Context(Pentagon and Air Force officials said,List([0, 37))):(regular training flight schedules; resumed; T:Thursday; T:at noon local time)

EDT).

The flights account for a majority of U.S. air missions in the Persian Gulf region.
0.95 (The flights; account; for a majority of U.S. air missions in the Persian Gulf region)

The Air Force ``has not changed anything'' in flight operations as a result of the suspension of flights, Capt.
0.92 (The Air Force; has not changed; anything)

A.C. Roper, a spokesman for U.S. Central Command, said in Saudi Arabia.
0.93 (A.C. Roper; said; L:in Saudi Arabia)
0.88 (A.C. Roper; [is] a spokesman for; U.S. Central Command)

He said Air Force officials wanted to ``examine potential hazards and to be sure they were doing everything possible to prevent accidents.
0.55 (they; were doing; everything possible; to prevent accidents)
0.55 Context(they were doing,List([81, 96))):(they; were doing everything possible to prevent; accidents)
0.41 (He; said; Air Force officials wanted to ``examine potential hazards and to be sure they were doing everything possible)
0.91 Context(He said,List([0, 7))):(Air Force officials; wanted; to ``examine potential hazards and to be sure they were doing everything possible)
0.88 Context(He said Air Force officials wanted,List([0, 34))):(Air Force officials; wanted to examine; potential hazards)

``They have not identified any common cause or common contributing factors'' to the recent accidents, he added.
0.82 (They have not identified any common cause or common contributing factors'' to the recent accidents; added; he)
0.56 Context(They have not identified any common cause or common contributing factors '' to the recent accidents added,List([2, 110))):(They; have not identified; any common cause or common contributing factors; to the recent accidents)

At the Pentagon, spokesman Pete Williams said the number of U.S. aircraft accidents in the gulf - including three separate crashes this week - were not out of the ordinary.
0.97 (spokesman Pete Williams; said; the number of U.S. aircraft accidents in the gulf - including three separate crashes this week - were not out of the ordinary; L:At the Pentagon)
0.92 Context(spokesman Pete Williams said,List([17, 45))):(the number of U.S. aircraft accidents in the gulf - including three separate crashes this week; were not; out of the ordinary)

However, suspension of training flights indicated otherwise.
0.80 (suspension of training flights; indicated; otherwise)

Williams said the Air Force gave its pilots in the gulf ``safety awareness'' briefings during the flight ban in order ``to review what they need to do to fly more safely.''
0.28 (they; to fly more safely; )
0.91 (Williams; said; the Air Force gave its pilots in the gulf ``safety awareness'' briefings during the flight ban in order)
0.91 Context(Williams said,List([0, 13))):(the Air Force; gave; its pilots; L:in the gulf ``safety awareness'' briefings during the flight ban in order; to review what they need to do)

Aircraft on operational missions were not grounded, said Col. Miguel Monteverde, another Pentagon spokesman.
0.94 (Aircraft on operational missions were not grounded; said; Col. Miguel Monteverde)
0.78 Context(Aircraft on operational missions were not grounded said,List([0, 56))):(Aircraft on operational missions; were not grounded; )

Those included reconnaissance aircraft, refueling tanker planes and F-15 jets patrolling areas near the Kuwait or Iraqi borders.
0.91 (Those included reconnaissance aircraft; refueling; patrolling areas near the Kuwait or Iraqi borders)

He said pilots of those planes received special safety briefings but their flight schedules were not changed.
0.36 (their flight schedules; were not changed; )
0.17 (He; said; pilots of those planes received special safety briefings but their flight schedules were not changed)
0.89 Context(He said,List([0, 7))):(pilots of those planes; received; special safety briefings but their flight schedules were not changed)

``So there was no degradation of our ability to defend ourselves,'' Monteverde said.
0.82 (So there was no degradation of our ability; said; Monteverde)
0.50 (there; was no degradation of; our ability)

Desert Shield, the largest U.S. military buildup since the Vietnam War, involves an estimated 700 Air Force combat and support aircraft.
0.93 (Desert Shield; involves; an estimated 700 Air Force combat and support aircraft)

Williams said information about the number of flight hours in Desert Shield is classified and will not be disclosed.
0.87 (information about the number of flight hours in Desert Shield; will not be disclosed; )
0.95 (Williams; said; information about the number of flight hours in Desert Shield is classified and will not be disclosed)
0.91 Context(Williams said,List([0, 13))):(information about the number of flight hours in Desert Shield; is; classified)

As a result, he said, he could not compare the accident rate with that of previous deployments.
0.18 (he; said; he could not compare the accident rate with that of previous deployments)
0.23 (he; could not compare; the accident rate; with that of previous deployments)

The toll for accidental deaths since Operation Desert Shield began rose to 31 on Wednesday when an Air Force F-111 fighter-bomber crashed on a training mission in Saudi Arabia, killing both crew members.
0.96 (The toll for accidental deaths; began; Operation Desert Shield)
0.98 (The toll for accidental deaths since Operation Desert Shield began; rose; to 31; T:on Wednesday; T:when an Air Force F-111 fighter-bomber crashed on a training mission in Saudi Arabia)
0.97 (an Air Force F-111 fighter-bomber; crashed; L:on a training mission in Saudi Arabia)
0.95 (an Air Force F-111 fighter-bomber; killing; both crew members)

On Monday, two pilots were killed in the crash of an Air Force F-4 Phantom reconnaissance jet in Saudi Arabia, and just hours earlier two Marine Corps UH-1 Huey helicopters, each carrying four crew members, crashed over the Arabian Sea, killing all eight men.
0.97 (two pilots; were killed; L:in the crash of an Air Force F-4 Phantom reconnaissance jet in Saudi Arabia; T:On Monday)
0.54 (each; carrying; four crew members)

Williams said the Air Force was the only service that has taken special measures to review safety in the gulf since this week's accidents.
0.93 (the only service; has taken; special measures to review safety in the gulf since this week's accidents)
0.92 (Williams; said; the Air Force was the only service)
0.84 Context(Williams said,List([0, 13))):(the Air Force; was; the only service that has taken special measures)

``They're concerned about the accidents, they're concerned about the number of accidents that happened so quickly over a short period of time,'' he told reporters.
0.58 (they; concerned; about the number of accidents)
0.88 (accidents; happened so quickly; T:over a short period of time)
0.84 (They're concerned about the accidents, they're concerned about the number of accidents; told; reporters)
0.62 Context(They 're concerned about the accidents , they 're concerned about the number of accidents told,List([2, 152))):(they; 're; concerned about the number of accidents)
0.62 Context(They 're concerned about the accidents , they 're concerned about the number of accidents told,List([2, 152))):(They; 're; concerned about the accidents)

He said, however, that the military's safety record in Desert Shield remained good.
0.27 (He; said; however; that the military's safety record in Desert Shield remained good)
0.86 Context(He said,List([0, 7))):(the military's safety record in Desert Shield; remained; good)

``Given the amount of flying that has to be done, given the extraordinary circumstances and given the higher than ordinary operating tempo in the area, I think our service people are doing very well, but any accident is cause for concern,'' he said.
0.93 (any accident; is; cause for concern)
0.93 (has to be done, given the extraordinary circumstances and given; said; he)
0.72 (the extraordinary circumstances; given; )
0.39 (any accident; is cause for; concern)

Five U.S. aircraft have been involved in fatal crashes in the gulf area since the start of Desert Shield two months ago: an F-111, an F-4 Phantom reconnaissance jet, an F-15E and two Marine Corps UH-1 Huey helicopters.
0.96 (Five U.S. aircraft; have been involved; in fatal crashes in the gulf area since the start of Desert Shield two months ago)

Also, a C-5 transport plane crashed in West Germany while ferrying equipment to Saudi Arabia.
0.96 (a C-5 transport plane; crashed; L:in West Germany; T:while ferrying equipment to Saudi Arabia)
0.95 (a C-5 transport plane; ferrying; equipment; to Saudi Arabia)

Also, 20 other aircraft have been involved in non-fatal accidents in the gulf area, Williams said.
0.98 (Also, 20 other aircraft have been involved in non-fatal accidents in the gulf area; said; Williams)
0.89 Context(Also , 20 other aircraft have been involved in non-fatal accidents in the gulf area said,List([0, 97))):(20 other aircraft; have been involved; in non-fatal accidents in the gulf area)

Fifteen of those were helicopters.
0.59 (Fifteen of those; were; helicopters)

