BFN

[Text] Tokyo -- An F-15 fighter of the U.S. Forces on  Okinawa crashed near Kadena Air Base on 4 April.

Commenting on  the crash, Akira Takeshita, deputy director general of the  Defense Facilities Administration Agency [DFAA], said, "Such a  crash should not have occurred and it is very regrettable that  the crash actually occurred."
0.69 (Akira Takeshita; said; Such a  crash should not have occurred and it is very regrettable that  the crash actually occurred)
0.70 Context(Akira Takeshita said,List([26, 128))):(Such a  crash; should not have occurred; )
0.38 (Akira Takeshita; [is] deputy director general of; the Defense Facilities Administration Agency [DFAA])

He also made it clear that  shortly after the crash, the DFAA asked the command of the U.S.  Forces in Japan [USFJ] to take thorough measures for safe  management of the U.S. military bases on Okinawa and conduct a  thorough investigation into the cause of the crash.
0.21 (He; made; it clear that  shortly after the crash, the DFAA asked the command of the U.S.  Forces in Japan [USFJ] to take thorough measures for safe  management of the U.S. military bases on Okinawa and conduct a  thorough investigation into the cause of the crash)
0.98 (the DFAA; asked; the command of the U.S.  Forces in Japan; to take thorough measures for safe  management of the U.S. military bases on Okinawa and conduct a  thorough investigation into the cause of the crash; T:shortly after the crash)

The Kadena Air Base public affairs office gave a briefing on  the crash and the DFAA released the briefing.
0.95 (The Kadena Air Base public affairs office; gave; a briefing on  the crash)
0.93 (the DFAA; released; the briefing)

The briefing said:  An F-15 fighter taking off from Kadena Air Base on a routine  training crashed near the air base at 0924 on 4 April.
0.95 (An F-15 fighter; taking off; from Kadena Air Base)
0.92 (The briefing; said; An F-15 fighter taking off from Kadena Air Base on a routine  training crashed near the air base at 0924 on 4 April)
0.93 Context(The briefing said,List([0, 17))):(An F-15 fighter; crashed; L:near the air base; T:at 0924; T:on 4 April)

The  crashed aircraft belonged to the 44th Fighter Squadron of the  18th Wing and the pilot safely ejected from the aircraft without  injuries.
0.95 (The  crashed aircraft; belonged; to the 44th Fighter Squadron of the  18th Wing and the pilot)
0.90 (the pilot; safely ejected; from the aircraft)

A team will begin investigating the cause of the  crash and details of the accident will be made public once the  investigation is completed.
0.73 (the  investigation; is completed; )
0.92 (A team; will begin; investigating the cause of the  crash and details of the accident will be made public)
0.92 Context(A team will begin,List([0, 17))):(A team; will begin investigating; the cause of the  crash and details of the accident will be made public once the  investigation is completed)

The U.S. military aircraft crashed about 800 meters  northeast  of a Kadena Air Base runway and the crash site is within the air  base's facilities.
0.93 (the crash site; is; within the air  base's facilities)

Mr. Takeshita said: "As for the safe management of the U.S.  military bases on Okinawa, we have long asked the U.S. side for  it.
0.90 (Mr. Takeshita; said; As for the safe management of the U.S.  military bases on Okinawa, we have long asked the U.S. side for  it)
0.33 Context(Mr. Takeshita said,List([0, 18))):(we; have asked; the U.S. side; for  it; T:long)

The DFAA immediately expressed regret to the command of the  U.S. Forces in Yokota over the crash and the Naha DFAA Bureau  expressed regret to the commander of the U.S. Forces on Okinawa.
0.96 (The DFAA; expressed; regret; to the command of the  U.S. Forces in Yokota; over the crash; T:immediately)
0.90 (the Naha DFAA Bureau; expressed; regret; to the commander of the U.S. Forces on Okinawa)

We will continue to ask them to work for the safe management of  the U.S. military bases in Japan."
0.61 (them; to work; for the safe management of  the U.S. military bases in Japan)
0.40 (We; will continue; to ask them to work for the safe management of  the U.S. military bases in Japan)
0.40 Context(We will continue,List([0, 16))):(We; will continue to ask; them; to work for the safe management of  the U.S. military bases in Japan)

