The City Council today asked county prosecutors to investigate the conduct of a white policeman who was secretly filmed while he pushed an off-duty black policeman through a plate-glass window.
0.95 (The City Council; asked; county prosecutors; to investigate the conduct of a white policeman; T:today)
0.94 (county prosecutors; to investigate; the conduct of a white policeman who was secretly filmed)
0.45 (he; pushed; an off-duty black policeman; through a plate-glass window)

``We're certainly not happy to have an incident like this occurring, but we need all the information,'' said Councilman Thomas J. Clark of the council's request for an investigation.
0.41 (We; to have; an incident like this occurring)
0.45 (we; need; all the information)
0.92 (We're certainly not happy to have an incident like this occurring, but we need all the information; said; Councilman Thomas J. Clark of the council's request for an investigation)
0.40 Context(We 're certainly not happy to have an incident like this occurring , but we need all the information said,List([2, 108))):(We; 're certainly not; happy to have an incident like this occurring)

Curt Livesay, an assisant Los Angeles County district attorney and head of the office's Special Investigations Division, will lead the probe, said district attorney spokesman Andy Reynolds.
0.98 (Curt Livesay, an assisant Los Angeles County district attorney and head of the office's Special Investigations Division, will lead the probe; said; district attorney spokesman Andy Reynolds)
0.90 Context(Curt Livesay , an assisant Los Angeles County district attorney and head of the office 's Special Investigations Division , will lead the probe said,List([0, 146))):(Curt Livesay; will lead; the probe)
0.39 (Andy Reynolds; [is] said spokesman [of]; district attorney)
0.88 (Curt Livesay; [is] an district attorney [of]; assisant Los Angeles County)

The black Hawthorne policeman, Sgt.

Don Jackson, said he set up the self-styled ``sting'' in Long Beach to expose alleged police racism in the Los Angeles area.
0.82 (Don Jackson; said; he set up)
0.16 Context(Don Jackson said,List([0, 17))):(he; set up; )

An NBC-TV news camera crew arranged to follow Jackson during the sting Saturday night.
0.91 (An NBC-TV news camera crew; arranged; to follow Jackson during the sting Saturday night)
0.91 Context(An NBC - TV news camera crew arranged,List([0, 35))):(An NBC-TV news camera crew; arranged to follow; Jackson; T:during the sting Saturday night)

The incident was broadcast on NBC's national news Monday night.
0.92 (The incident; was broadcast; L:on NBC's national news Monday night)

``We've never been able to come forth before with enough evidence (of alleged police racism).
0.57 (We; 've never been; able to come forth before with enough evidence (of alleged police racism)

Now, it is brought to your living room in living color,'' said Frank Berry, president of the Long Beach chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
0.79 (Now, it is brought to your living room in living color; said; Frank Berry)
0.39 Context(Now , it is brought to your living room in living color said,List([0, 62))):(it; is brought; to your living room in living color; T:Now)
0.38 (Frank Berry; [is] president of; the Long Beach chapter)

The police chief in Long Beach declined to comment pending an investigation.
0.94 (The police chief in Long Beach; declined; to comment pending an investigation)
0.94 Context(The police chief in Long Beach declined,List([0, 39))):(The police chief in Long Beach; declined to comment; pending an investigation)

City officials promised a thorough inquiry.
0.90 (City officials; promised; a thorough inquiry)

``We will pursue it aggressively,'' said Long Beach City Manager James Hanklad.
0.66 (We will pursue it aggressively; said; Long Beach City Manager James Hanklad)
0.26 Context(We will pursue it aggressively said,List([2, 40))):(We; will pursue aggressively; it)

``If there is evidence of brutality, we will act accordingly.''
0.19 (we; will act accordingly; )
0.50 (there; is evidence of; brutality)

Long Beach Mayor Ernie Kell said on NBC's ``Today'' show this morning that he was disturbed by the videotape.
0.87 (Long Beach Mayor Ernie Kell; said; L:on NBC's ``Today; show this morning that he was disturbed by the videotape)

``I ... do not support racism or police brutality, nor do the vast majority of the citizens of Long Beach, and we're a caring, thinking community and it disturbed us very much to see the tape,'' he said.
0.98 (I ... do not support racism or police brutality, nor do the vast majority of the citizens of Long Beach, and we're a caring, thinking community and it disturbed us very much; said; he)
0.36 Context(I ... do not support racism or police brutality , nor do the vast majority of the citizens of Long Beach , and we 're a caring , thinking community and it disturbed us very much said,List([2, 202))):(I; do not support; racism or police brutality)
0.89 (a caring; thinking; community)
0.31 (it; disturbed; us; very much; to see the tape)

Long Beach, about 20 miles south of downtown Los Angeles, has about 450,000 people, including a sizeable black population.
0.97 (Long Beach, about 20 miles south of downtown Los Angeles; has; about 450,000 people, including a sizeable black population)

Jackson and a companion were driving through a high-crime area of the city when their car was pulled over and Jackson got out.
0.94 (Jackson and a companion; were driving; through a high-crime area of the city; T:when their car was pulled over and Jackson got out)
0.84 (Jackson; got; out)

The NBC-TV videotape shows a white officer attempting to search Jackson.
0.93 (The NBC-TV videotape; shows; a white officer attempting to search Jackson)
0.91 (a white officer; attempting; to search Jackson)
0.91 Context(a white officer attempting,List([27, 53))):(a white officer; attempting to search; Jackson)

The officer unleashed a stream of profanity and roughed up Jackson after he demanded to know why he was being searched.
0.90 (The officer; unleashed; a stream of profanity)
0.89 (The officer; roughed up; Jackson; T:after he demanded to know why he was being searched)
0.26 (he; demanded; to know why he was being searched)
0.26 Context(he demanded,List([73, 84))):(he; demanded to know; why he was being searched)
0.16 Context(he demanded to know,List([73, 92))):(he; was being searched; )

The incident renewed calls for a citizen board to review the Police Department.
0.93 (a citizen board; to review; the Police Department)

The idea first was debated last year amid allegations of police brutality.
0.93 (The idea; was debated; T:last year; L:amid allegations of police brutality; T:first)

But Jackson's boss said the black officer was looking for trouble.
0.91 (Jackson's boss; said; the black officer was looking for trouble)
0.89 Context(Jackson 's boss said,List([4, 23))):(the black officer; was looking; for trouble)

``I submit that if Mr. Jackson had stayed in the vehicle, as did the driver, this incident would not have occurred,'' Hawthorne Police Chief Kenneth R. Stonebraker said at a news conference Monday.
0.93 (Mr. Jackson; had stayed; in the vehicle)
0.93 (I submit that if Mr. Jackson had stayed in the vehicle, as did the driver, this incident would not have occurred; said; L:at a news conference; T:Monday)
0.31 Context(I submit that if Mr. Jackson had stayed in the vehicle , as did the driver , this incident would not have occurred said,List([2, 168))):(I; submit; that if Mr. Jackson had stayed in the vehicle, as did the driver, this incident would not have occurred)
0.68 Context(I submit that if Mr. Jackson had stayed in the vehicle , as did the driver , this incident would not have occurred said,List([2, 168))):(this incident; would not have occurred; )

Since the incident apparently was timed by Jackson to coincide with the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. the confrontation should be considered ``nothing short of timed sensationalism at the risk of serious injury to all of the parties involved,'' Stonebraker said.
1.00 (Since the incident apparently was timed by Jackson to coincide with the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. the confrontation should be considered ``nothing short of timed sensationalism at the risk of serious injury to all of the parties; said; Stonebraker)
0.94 Context(Since the incident apparently was timed by Jackson to coincide with the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr . the confrontation should be considered `` nothing short of timed sensationalism at the risk of serious injury to all of the parties said,List([0, 270))):(the incident; apparently was timed; by Jackson; to coincide with the birthday of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr)
0.70 (the incident; to coincide; )
0.73 (the parties; involved; )

``As a police chief,'' he added, ``I do not for one minute condone the unlawful use of force or police brutality.''
0.37 (he; added; I do not for one minute condone the unlawful use of force or police brutality)
0.57 (I; do not; for one minute condone the unlawful use of force or police brutality)

The 30-year-old Jackson, who has been on a stress-related disability leave from his Hawthorne job for 22 months, contends the incident is typical of a pattern of racism by white officers in the Los Angeles area.
0.95 (The 30-year-old Jackson; has been; on a stress-related disability leave from his Hawthorne job; T:for 22 months)
0.96 (The 30-year-old Jackson; contends; the incident is typical of a pattern of racism by white officers in the Los Angeles area)
0.95 Context(The 30 - year - old Jackson contends,List([0, 121))):(the incident; is; typical of a pattern of racism by white officers in the Los Angeles area)

Jackson alleges racist slurs and actions forced him from the Hawthorne department.
0.90 (Jackson; alleges; racist slurs and actions)

He has a disability lawsuit pending, has filed racism complaints against the department and conducted a similar personal sting operation against Los Angeles police.
0.52 (He; has; a disability lawsuit pending)
0.41 (He; has filed; racism complaints against the department)
0.46 (He; conducted; a similar personal sting operation against Los Angeles police)

Jackson was riding as a passenger with Jeffrey Hill, a 30-year-old off-duty state corrections officer, when they were pulled over allegedly for straddling lanes, which they denied.
0.93 (Jackson; was riding; as a passenger with Jeffrey Hill)
0.62 (they; were pulled allegedly; for straddling lanes; T:a 30-year-old off-duty state corrections officer, when they were pulled over allegedly for straddling lanes, which they denied)
0.91 (a 30-year-old off-duty state corrections officer, when they were pulled over allegedly for straddling lanes; denied; they)

Jackson got out after the car stopped and police approached.
0.92 (Jackson; got out; T:after the car stopped and police approached)
0.73 (the car; stopped; )
0.71 (police; approached; )

During an argument, Long Beach Officer Mark Dickey ordered Jackson to face a building and put his hands behind his head.
0.97 (Long Beach Officer Mark Dickey; ordered; Jackson; to face a building and put his hands behind his head; T:During an argument)
0.92 (Jackson; to face; a building)
0.80 (Jackson; to put; his hands; behind his head)

Jackson complied, and moments later was pushed through a plate-glass store window.
0.77 (Jackson; complied; )
0.93 (moments; was pushed; through a plate-glass store window; T:later)

``I'm all right.
0.28 (I; 'm; all right)

OK, no problem,'' said Jackson on the videotape.

Police booked Jackson for investigation of interfering with police and challenging a police officer.
0.94 (Police; booked; Jackson; for investigation of interfering with police and challenging a police officer)

Hill was issued a traffic citation.
0.86 (Hill; was issued; a traffic citation)

``The officer simply used violence,'' Jackson said Monday.
0.91 (The officer simply used violence; said; T:Monday)
0.88 Context(The officer simply used violence said,List([2, 50))):(The officer; simply used; violence)

``I already cooperated and told him he could search me,'' Jackson said.
0.41 (I; told; him; he could search me; T:already)
0.26 Context(I told,List([2, 31))):(he; could search; me)
0.85 (I already cooperated and told him he could search me; said; Jackson)
0.26 Context(I already cooperated and told him he could search me said,List([2, 70))):(I; cooperated; T:already)

``I had already had my hands up and was turned to the window and he slammed my face in it.''
0.22 (I; had had up; T:already)
0.41 (I; was turned; to the window)
0.31 (he; slammed; my face; L:in it)

Jackson received support at a Monday night ceremony in Los Angeles commemorating King's birthday.
0.93 (Jackson; received; support; L:at a Monday night ceremony in Los Angeles)

``I'm deeply concerned since it strikes me as a period when police violence and excessive force is rampant,'' said Mark Ridley-Thomas, executive director of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference's Los Angeles chapter.
0.97 (police violence and excessive force; is; rampant; T:a period)
0.64 (I'm deeply concerned; said; Mark Ridley-Thomas)
0.32 Context(I 'm deeply concerned said,List([2, 114))):(I; 'm; deeply concerned since it strikes me as a period)
0.38 (Mark Ridley-Thomas; [is] executive director of; the Southern Christian Leadership Conference)

``I'm more so offended since the Hawthorne Police Department, which has no jurisdiction, is making judgment.''
0.46 (I; offended; T:since the Hawthorne Police Department)
0.94 (the Hawthorne Police Department; has; no jurisdiction)

Jackson said he chose Long Beach police because of complaints to the Police Misconduct Lawyer's Referral Service of Los Angeles.
0.91 (Jackson; said; he chose Long Beach police because of complaints to the Police Misconduct Lawyer's Referral Service of Los Angeles)
0.56 Context(Jackson said,List([0, 12))):(he; chose; Long Beach police; because of complaints to the Police Misconduct Lawyer's Referral Service of Los Angeles)

David Lynn of the referral service said 50 misconduct complaints were filed with his group against the Long Beach police.
0.94 (David Lynn of the referral service; said; 50 misconduct complaints were filed with his group against the Long Beach police)
0.84 Context(David Lynn of the referral service said,List([0, 39))):(50 misconduct complaints; were filed; with his group against the Long Beach police)

Of those, 27 were filed by minorities, and 24 of those involved confrontations with white officers.
0.54 (27; were filed; by minorities)

